# ADR-1: Creating Historial Elo Ratings
## Context
Using Jeff Sackman's record of historical tennis matches, I would like to create my own Elo rankings that I can then use to predict the outcome of tennis matches. 

The north star view is to have:
1. A system that can generate an Elo rating for a player with an arbitrary lookback between 3-36 months. A set of these ratings could then be used as features in a ML model to predict the outcome of a given match.
2. Separate ratings for hard, clay and grass/carpet matches to account for particular players' aptitude on certain surfaces.

The output should be a database that has at least:
1. date - the Monday of each week that represents the week each ranking applies for.
2. rank - a simple way to understand where players rank on the default Elo rating - 12 months, all surfaces.
3. player - name and id to allow unique identification .
4. ratings - 3m/6m/12m/18m/24m/30m/36m ratings for overall/hard/clay/grass (no 3m or 6m for grass) = 26 columns.
5. Nm - number of matches contributing to each rating = 26 columns.

This database would then be accessible by a web app for visualisation purposes.

## Decision
To start working towards the north star vision, focus on creating the 12m overall Elo first. The output databse will then have:
1. ranking date
2. player - name and ID
3. rating
4. matches played - number of matches contributing to rating.

The working dataframe will have the follwing columns:
1. ranking date
2. player - name and ID
3. rating start - rating end from previous week
4. N_e - number of matches `rating start` is based on
4. m - number of matches played in teh current week
5. K-factor used for this week
6. total score - score for this week
7. avg score - total score / m
8. dp - performance rating component from a lookup on avg score
9. performance rating - avg of opponent ratings + dp
10. expected score - compare rating start to opponents' rating start
11. update - the update to score
12. rating end - rating start + update

All players that have > 1 match played in the last year will be included for each week.

Rating starts:
1. WTA/ATP tour - 1500
2. Qual/Chal/ITF - 1450 (win % for tour players was 57.9%, 2000-2009)
['tourney_date','player_name','rating_start','Ne','m','k_factor','total_score','avg_score','dp','performance_rating','expected_score','update','rating_end']

## Status
Proposed

## Consequences
It should be easier to get to proof of concept stage.
